Welcome back agent.
Let's now discuss how to actually perform encryption and hashing with Python.
Remember in order to do the encryption you'll need to install the cryptography library with Pipp install
cryptography.
Let's open up a Jupiter notebook.
The first step to all of this is to import hash lib.
So we'll start off with just hashing.
And as we previously mentioned there are a large variety of hashing algorithms available socially cryptographic
hashing because it's a large research area of study.
And if you want to see all the algorithms available in the hashed lib library there's a built in library
in Python.
You can use algorithms underscore available and it's an attribute off of this where it just lists off
all the libraries that are available.
Keep in mind some of these are not recommended to be used such as like M.D 4 and the 5 and other ones
are kind of more cutting edge.
Maybe some of the Blake or SHC three algorithms those are a little more modern than some of the other
algorithms you'll see in this list.
Here you have a lot of options to choose from and you can even download more options if you want from
the internet.
For our case we're going to use SHK three 256 bit.
So the second number stands for the bits that you are using where we we're going to do is first off
create a hash object.
Let's zoom in just a little bit so we can get an idea of what we're doing here.
We'll create a hash object and you do that by calling hash lid and then one of the methods said here
so we'll choose h a.
Secure hash algorithm version 3 256 bit and this was created in an open competition from the NSA.
Once you've created your hash object what you do is you update it if you want to hash a string we will
call a hash object and update it with the byte string of whatever we want to hash.
For example if you want hash Hello we have to pass in a byte string indicating there's a B at the beginning
of this.
And if you actually want what the DI just looks like the next I just can be obtained by calling hex
digest method off your object.
And now this is the hash version of this string.
Hello.
Now I want to show you just how different even a minor change in the string will cause the hash to be
if we just lowercase h here.
That's a very minor change in the string.
But if we rerun these lines I'm going to run this again and instead of running this cell again let's
copy and paste this here.
We can compare the previous hash to the new hash.
You can see here that there's a lot that is actually an entirely different hash from just lower casing
the H.
And there's no way that you'd be able to go from this hash to the string.
A common question that arises here is what is the real purpose of a one way hash function.
Where would I see this in everyday life and a really good example is when you're logging into a Web
site that requires a password or an email your password needs to be secure and it would be a pretty
insecure method if Google or Facebook just stored your password as plain text.
We can imagine that if you were to pass in your password as a byte string here.
So maybe your password is password 1 2 3.
Not a very good password.
And you ran this what you would not want Facebook or Google to do is to save your password as password
1 2 3.
Because that means if their servers were ever compromised and someone who was actually able to view
their information they would be able to read your password with just plain text.
Instead what Google Facebook and pretty much every other major company does is they will save only the
hash version of your password.
So on file they'll have this hash but they will actually have your real password and what they do then
is when you enter your password.
They run it through the hash function and then check that the hash function of your password matches
the hash function of what they have on file.
That way they can still confirm that you are the correct user of the correct password without having
to save your actual password on file.
And then there's other even more advanced methods which are also actually quite common now things like
adding salt and pepper to a password which essentially is in the case they are adding an extra piece
of string after this so maybe out Google or Facebook they add in some little bit of salt which is essentially
just a little more extra string to your password and they'll store that extra string somewhere else
on their servers.
So then your password is even more secure because they've salted it with more information.
So even if someone actually is able to read for some reason your original password or the hex of it
they'll still won't be able to guess with the additional salt.
So that's just another method of encrypting passwords or I should say hashing passwords online.
So that's why you would use a one way hash.
And now let's see how we can perform encryption.
Again this is just the one way we can't really go backwards from this to the actual string but with
an encryption and decryption we will be able to go back and forth as long as we have the correct key
in order to perform encryption and decryption.
Make sure you've installed the cryptography library once you have you'll be able to run from cryptography.
Let's make sure we spell this right from critique cryptography thought Fernet imports Fernet with a
capital F and then the first step is to actually generate a key.
Later on we'll show you how to create your own keys but it's a lot more secure if you allow the cryptography
library to generate a key so to do that.
You'll call the Gennari key method off of this and then you will have some hashed byte string here.
And now that is your key.
Is it cryptographic Lee executed key.
And later on we'll see how to make her own based off of some seed string.
Once you have the key Well you can do is create a cipher will create a cipher and we pass that key into
this Fernet and we create the cipher object and now it's actually quite simple you just take whatever
text you want and offer your cipher object you call encrypt and you passen the byte string of your text
that says hello are you there and it will return back the encrypted version.
So this is what you can publicly send around and hopefully no one will be able to actually infer what
is the actual message behind this encrypted version of it.
Then if you're on the other end what you do is you create your own cipher.
So let's say the person on the other computer they create another cipher.
What they will need to know is this secret key.
So that's kind of the challenge of encryption and decryption.
You have to somehow get this securely to the other user.
And then we have your other cipher.
And what we can do now is from other cipher we can call decrypt and then pass an encrypted message here
so we'll copy this.
Notice again it's a byte strings storing to be outside of that quote and we pasand this whole thing
and if we decrypt it we get back.
Hello are you there.
All right so we just mention that in general you should try to generate keys from this library to make
sure the cryptographically secure.
But a lot of times it's easier if the recipient on the other end has some sort of basic string to go
off of.
So let's now show you how you can create a custom key.
Again we don't recommend you do this unless you absolutely have to.
We'll create a key word for our custom string.
So let's say the custom string is just one two three.
So that's our key word.
No it's a byte strings and let us be there.
So we have our custom keyword string.
One two three.
We now need to use hashing to actually turn it into a hash of base 64.
Basically this format that the Fernet function is going to be able to use.
So we will say key is equal to we'll call hash lib and we will call the secure hash algorithm version
3 256 bit and we will pass in our keyword sensu that be 1 to 3 and now we have a key.
So we have this hashed object and we can grab the actual digest off of this and we have this Digest.
And this is actually still not in the format that the Fernet object expects to actually get in the format
we need to encode it to base 64 it.
So to do that we will import base 64
and say key bytes is equal to key dot digest.
Essentially what we had up here run that and then say you're finnicky is equal to base 64 and the method
call here is quite a long one so I recommend using tab complete and say you are all safe.
Be 6:04 and code.
So that's E for and Kotze we're going to encode these key bytes.
What we got here and once you code it the key should be in the format that we expect something that
looks like this.
And that's how you can start off with a keyword that is easy to share and then some sort of agreed upon
hashing algorithm and eventually you can get back out a key that will work with the cryptography library.
This is not as secure of a method but it still works.
So once you have this key what you do is you can create your own custom cipher
and then pass that key when you're creating it.
Let's say for key run that and using that custom cipher you can then encrypt any message you want to
chose.
Well let's make sure it's a byte string.
Hello we get back that encryption and then we can call custom cipher and decrypt it again.
So will copy and paste this and we get back.
Hello.
All right.
Those are really all the basics you need to know about hashing encryption and decryption.
Let's have a very quick overview of what we just covered.
So starting from the top to do basic caching you can just call the python's builtin hash library.
There's lots of algorithms available.
So you can see here not all of them are recommended some of them have been deemed secure but something
go for right now is say three to six but that's still deemed secure.
And you can then update a byte string and get back its hexed digest if you want.
The one way hash.
And again to make it clear if you do even a minor change on that string you'll get back a completely
different hash.
Because it's cryptographically secure if you want to perform encryption you use the cryptography library
and you can either generate keys from the library itself and then use those keys to create ciphers and
off the cipher say encrypt or decrypt.
And as an alternative to using generate key you can essentially create your own key based off some root
keyword and some agreed upon hashing algorithm.
So you decide on the keyword byte string you're going to use and the hash algorithm you'll also use
pass that keyword into that hash algorithm then grab that digest and using the built in base 64 library
encode it into the same format that the cipher will expect.
Which is this right here.
Then passen Internet that key you'll get back your custom cipher and you'll be able to encrypt or decrypt
messages.
That's it.
Best of luck on your next mission.
Agent.